docs/running_tests.md, before:

# Tests

Features should always contain unit tests to verify functionality and may need additional tests depending on the feature scope.


## Test Suites

BOSH uses several different types of tests, depending on the scope and subject.


### Unit Tests

Unit tests describe the behavior of individual objects or methods. Each BOSH component has its own unit tests in a `spec/unit` folder.

When working on a specific component, switch to that directory before running `rspec`:

```
# first change into the component's directory
bosh$ cd src/bosh-director
bosh/src/bosh-director$ bundle exec rspec
```

To run unit tests for all components, use the `spec:unit` rake task from the project root:

```
bosh/src$ bundle exec rake spec:unit
```

The CLI must be backwards compatible with Ruby 1.9.3, so when making CLI changes make sure that the CLI tests pass when run with Ruby 1.9.3. All code needs to run on Ruby 2.x.x.

You can also use a [Concourse CI](https://concourse.ci/) instance with the rake task:

```
bosh/src$ CONCOURSE_TARGET=bosh CONCOURSE_TAG= bundle exec rake fly:unit
```


### Integration Tests

Integration tests describe communication between BOSH components focusing on the CLI, the Director and the Agent. They are located in the `src/spec/integration` directory. Run the integration tests with the `spec:integration` rake task:

```
bosh/src$ bundle exec rake spec:integration
```

You can also use a [Concourse CI](https://concourse.ci/) instance with the rake task:

```
bosh/src$ CONCOURSE_TARGET=bosh CONCOURSE_TAG= bundle exec rake fly:integration
```

### Acceptance Tests (BATs)

BATs describe BOSH behavior at the highest level. They often cover infrastructure-specific behavior that is not easily tested at lower levels. BATs verify integration between all BOSH components and infrastructures. They run against a deployed Director and use the CLI to perform tasks. They exercise different BOSH workflows (e.g. deploying for the first time, updating existing deployments, handling broken deployments). The assertions are made against CLI commands exit status, output and state of VMs after performing the command. Since BATs run on real infrastructures, they help verify that specific combinations of the Director and stemcell works.

The BATs live in a separate repository, [cloudfoundry/bosh-acceptance-tests](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/bosh-acceptance-tests). To learn how to run them, please see the README and docs in that repository.

### Release Acceptance Tests (BRATs)

BRATs describe the behavior of BOSH as a BOSH release. They consume a BOSH release and cover specific properties in release. At present, BRATs validate the blobstore access log format as it is CEF format.

Here is an example of running BRATs against a local BOSH director:
```
export BOSH_BINARY_PATH=`which bosh`
export BOSH_DIRECTOR_IP='192.168.50.6'
export BOSH_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH=<(bosh int ~/workspace/bosh-deployment/vbox/creds.yml --path /jumpbox_ssh/private_key)
export BOSH_CLIENT=admin
export BOSH_CLIENT_SECRET=`bosh int ~/workspace/bosh-deployment/vbox/creds.yml --path /admin_password`
export BOSH_CA_CERT=`bosh int ~/workspace/bosh-deployment/vbox/creds.yml --path /director_ssl/ca`
export BOSH_ENVIRONMENT='vbox'
ginkgo -r src/go/src/github.com/cloudfoundry/bosh-release-acceptance-tests
```

## Determining which tests suites to run

Sometimes type of infrastructure does not make a difference for changes made. For example if deployment workflow was modified in the Director or some CLI command was modified. In those cases running unit tests and integration tests is enough. In cases when changes relate to specific infrastructure or a CPI it is advised to build and test stemcell of the affected infrastructure.

### Build stemcell

The stemcell building process is described in [bosh-stemcell's README](../bosh-stemcell/README.md). One thing to note is that rake tasks were initially created to run tests on BOSH CI. For development purposes there should be some modifications:

* DO NOT set `CANDIDATE_BUILD_NUMBER` when building stemcell. This will allow you to build stemcell of version `0000` which is understood by rake tasks as a local stemcell.
* Generated stemcells of version `0000` should be put into the `bosh/tmp` directory before running BATs.

Commit message:

Add more documentation about integration test setup
Signed-off-by: Felix Riegger <felix.riegger@sap.com>
Signed-off-by: David Ansari <david.ansari@sap.com>
Signed-off-by: Jan von Loewenstein <jan.von.loewenstein@sap.com>

docs/running_tests.md, after:

# Tests

Features should always contain unit tests to verify functionality and may need additional tests depending on the feature scope.


## Test Suites

BOSH uses several different types of tests, depending on the scope and subject.


### Unit Tests

Unit tests describe the behavior of individual objects or methods. Each BOSH component has its own unit tests in a `spec/unit` folder.

When working on a specific component, switch to that directory before running `rspec`:

```
# first change into the component's directory
bosh$ cd src/bosh-director
bosh/src/bosh-director$ bundle exec rspec
```

To run unit tests for all components, use the `spec:unit` rake task from the project root:

```
bosh/src$ bundle exec rake spec:unit
```

The CLI must be backwards compatible with Ruby 1.9.3, so when making CLI changes make sure that the CLI tests pass when run with Ruby 1.9.3. All code needs to run on Ruby 2.x.x.

You can also use a [Concourse CI](https://concourse.ci/) instance with the rake task:

```
bosh/src$ CONCOURSE_TARGET=bosh CONCOURSE_TAG= bundle exec rake fly:unit
```


### Integration Tests

Integration tests describe communication between BOSH components focusing on the CLI, the Director and the Agent. They are located in the `src/spec/integration` directory. To prepare your workstation see [workstation setup docs](docs/workstation_setup.md). Run the integration tests with the `spec:integration` rake task:

```
bosh/src$ bundle exec rake spec:integration
```

You can also use a [Concourse CI](https://concourse.ci/) instance with the rake task:

```
bosh/src$ CONCOURSE_TARGET=bosh CONCOURSE_TAG= bundle exec rake fly:integration
```

### Acceptance Tests (BATs)

BATs describe BOSH behavior at the highest level. They often cover infrastructure-specific behavior that is not easily tested at lower levels. BATs verify integration between all BOSH components and infrastructures. They run against a deployed Director and use the CLI to perform tasks. They exercise different BOSH workflows (e.g. deploying for the first time, updating existing deployments, handling broken deployments). The assertions are made against CLI commands exit status, output and state of VMs after performing the command. Since BATs run on real infrastructures, they help verify that specific combinations of the Director and stemcell works.

The BATs live in a separate repository, [cloudfoundry/bosh-acceptance-tests](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/bosh-acceptance-tests). To learn how to run them, please see the README and docs in that repository.

### Release Acceptance Tests (BRATs)

BRATs describe the behavior of BOSH as a BOSH release. They consume a BOSH release and cover specific properties in release. At present, BRATs validate the blobstore access log format as it is CEF format.

Here is an example of running BRATs against a local BOSH director:
```
export BOSH_BINARY_PATH=`which bosh`
export BOSH_DIRECTOR_IP='192.168.50.6'
export BOSH_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH=<(bosh int ~/workspace/bosh-deployment/vbox/creds.yml --path /jumpbox_ssh/private_key)
export BOSH_CLIENT=admin
export BOSH_CLIENT_SECRET=`bosh int ~/workspace/bosh-deployment/vbox/creds.yml --path /admin_password`
export BOSH_CA_CERT=`bosh int ~/workspace/bosh-deployment/vbox/creds.yml --path /director_ssl/ca`
export BOSH_ENVIRONMENT='vbox'
ginkgo -r src/go/src/github.com/cloudfoundry/bosh-release-acceptance-tests
```

## Determining which tests suites to run

Sometimes type of infrastructure does not make a difference for changes made. For example if deployment workflow was modified in the Director or some CLI command was modified. In those cases running unit tests and integration tests is enough. In cases when changes relate to specific infrastructure or a CPI it is advised to build and test stemcell of the affected infrastructure.

### Build stemcell

The stemcell building process is described in [bosh-stemcell's README](../bosh-stemcell/README.md). One thing to note is that rake tasks were initially created to run tests on BOSH CI. For development purposes there should be some modifications:

* DO NOT set `CANDIDATE_BUILD_NUMBER` when building stemcell. This will allow you to build stemcell of version `0000` which is understood by rake tasks as a local stemcell.
* Generated stemcells of version `0000` should be put into the `bosh/tmp` directory before running BATs.
